Now let's go back and talk about for
loops and range and enumerate and
then we'll come back to the last
part of this exercise afterwards.
So we are talking about loops.
Loops in Python don't necessarily
look like they do in other
programming languages.
If you write JavaScript,
Java or some other languages,
you might be used to loops
that look something like this,
where you define a for,
you define a starting point,
you define what number you're looping to,
and then define a condition
that helps progress that starting
value to the ending condition.
Looping in python is a lot simpler and
cleaner and actually
a lot of other programming languages
have borrowed from Python syntax and
now incorporate some of these
nicer looping structures.
So in the past we had used this in
keyword to test if an item was inside
of a sequence, but when we combine
the end keyboard with the for keyword in
can be used to indicate that you
are looping over each item in a sequence.
So the syntax for this is for
a single item, and
that's gonna be a temporary variable name.
In items, which is a sequence,
followed by a colon,
you're gonna start a new line and then
indent under to loop in that for loop.
And again, if you're in the repple,
you'll need to press Enter again
in order to see the results.
Instead, I'm going to make a new
Python file called loops.pi.
And we can start up here.
So if I exit my repple here and
I run this Python file in the terminal,
I will see the color is red,
green, blue and orange.
And I'm printing out the value of color,
which I define right
here inside of my loop.
Something interesting that
I want to point out is
that loops don't have
the same scope as functions.
So here the for
loop was updating the value of color
each time that we looped over the loop.
When we are outside of the loop,
this variable color still exists.
And the value of that variable is
the last value that was in the list.
So something to be mindful of
when you're thinking about scope.
There's also a range function that
lets you generate a range of numbers.
You can pass in one value into it.
If you want to see what is actually
generated, you're going to need to pass
this range into a list because this is
what's called a generator type in Python.
Python 2 used to be more inefficient in
Python 3, if you passed a large number
in here, it's not going to create
a new data structure where the numbers
from one to that very large number
are also stored in memory at once.
So if you want to take a look at this,
let's pass it into the list constructor,
and it would tell you what this
would generate all at once.
But generally because you're going to be
using this range to loop over something,
you don't necessarily have to
have that whole range in memory.
You only care about what that value
is while you're in the loop and
what the next value might be.
And that's an optimization that
allows Python to save memory.
You could also pass in two numbers,
where this would be the starting point and
this would be the ending point.
The ending point is not inclusive.
So you can go ahead and
use range along with the for loop.
And that will go ahead and
print out each item in this range.
Now, if you need to get a handle on an
index, let's say that I have these colors.
If you needed to print out
both the name of the color and
the position that it was in,
don't go back to your old style for loops.
You don't need to declare a variable to
keep track of i and then increment i and
then print that out.
There's a shortcut in Python for
that called enumerate, and
the enumerate function, you pass it in
a list or set and it will return a tuple.
So if we passed in the value
of enumerate to look at it.
We'll see that it returns a list of
tuples where the first item is zero.
So that's the index and the second item
is what was contained in our list.
So this matches a position with a value.
And then you can use that tuple unpacking
that we saw earlier, inside of a for loop.
In order to get both of
these values at once.
So I can say for
index color in enumerate colors and
then I can print out the index,
And the color.
Without having to keep track of
an i without incrementing it
without creating any extra variables.
The use of the enumerate function is
one of those things that differentiates
beginners to Python, who don't
necessarily understand the core concepts
like all of you do with programmers and
Python who are more intermediate.
If I spot somebody using the enumerate
function, I know that they have
a pretty good understanding of
what's going on under the hood and
what pythonic code looks like.
Now remember,
if we want to loop over a dictionary,
we need to be mindful that by default,
a dictionary just gives us back the keys.
So we need to explicitly asked for
both keys and values.
So I'm going to grab this dictionary
right here with some hex colors.
If I were going to loop over,
This, I would just get the keys.
If I wanted to loop over keys and
values at the same time,
I would need to call hex_colors.items
to get back the keys and the values.
And look,
this is returning a list of tuples that
means that we can use tuple unpacking.
So I can now say for
key comma value in hex_colors.items.
Print the key, print something else and
then print the value.
So this is how I loop over both the key
and the value in a dictionary at once and
use tuple unpacking to get the key
into a variable named key and
the value into a variable name value, so
that I could then use them in my loop.
Python also has while loops,
and for those,
you will need to use some sort of counter.
I'm not going to jump into while
loops because you all have some
programming experience.
And so I expect that while loops look
pretty similar to what they might in
your programming language of choice.
I will say that the syntax for
a while loops looks something like this.
So I can say maybe Val = 0 and
then say while Val < 5,
print the value and
then increase the value by one,
either by saying Val equals now val+1 or
saying Val+=1.
And that will go ahead and
run a while loop.
So for a while loops you just do while and
an expression that evaluates to true or
false.
When you're doing while loops,
make sure that you will eventually have
a condition or this is false otherwise
your program will run for forever.
If you need to short circuit your loop,
you can use a return
statement to break out of it.
So let's say I have some names.
If I wanted to loop over these names and
stop when I found the target value so
I can say if name is equal to Stan.
Oops, sorry,
what I wanted to say was that you
would want to use this in a function.
Let's do this a little bit differently.
Let's save return_target and
pass in the name of a target.
And now we could do the same for loop and
make sure that it is indented correctly.
Oops, sorry.
If name is equal to the target,
we're going to return the name.
Let me make sure that
is indented correctly.
So now I can return target and
it will print Stan or
I can make a new target of Nina.
And once that target is found
the function will return.
So that's a way of short
circuiting a loop,
a different way of short circuiting
loops is with break and continue.
Those are more advanced concepts
that I'm not going to cover but
there is an optional chapter here in
the course website where you can follow
through on those